One last thing that I'm pretty excited to
show you, this is one of my favorite parts
about jest and actually one of the primary
reasons I end up using jest quite a bit.
Coming to your package.json we're
going to add another script here.
I'll do it here, test: coverage and
we're gonna say jest --
coverage like that, okay?
You can cancel this now
say npm run test:coverage.
So what this does, is it runs jest and it
just runs all of your tests normally, but
then it generates a report of what
things you have covered with your tests.
This uses a library called Istanbul
which is really common one or sometimes,
you might have used something called NYC,
which is just a symbol that's been
wrapped to make it more useful.
So you can see here, I ran four tests,
seven tests, two snapshots, and
this tells me what percentage of
statements were covered in there.
So for example, carousel.js literally
every line of that's covered,
you can see here and use pre this I
have something that's not being covered.
Looks like that's an if statement.
There you go, I'm missing line 13,
no test is hitting that.
This used to be incredibly
painful to set up, and
that's why I like about jest is jest
has it built into it out of the box.
Let's take this a step further and say,
you now have a coverage folder here, so
if you say open
coverage/lcov-report/index.html.
This will now open it in your browser and
you can actually get
a nice report out of this.
So imagine if you have a huge test Suite,
you can click into one of these and
you can see, for example, line 13 here, I
have no test that covers this line, right?
So that could tell me it's like,
okay, this actually
is a somewhat important line, we probably
should cover that with a test right?
And so then I can go back and do that.
You can also see here that it's not
covering this or statement at the moment,
so I could consider covering that as well.
You can also see here these
lines are being run once,
this line here is being hit six times,
you can kind of see the various
different levels of coverage here.
And you can see here we have results, and
that we have 100% test coverage here,
that it's a damn live.
All we're doing here is
doing a snapshot test.
Basically snapshot in this
context just means like, hey,
you don't have any syntax errors here,
right?
But this part of it's really cool that
it'll generate this test coverage report
for you out of the box for free.
I did nothing to set this
up it just comes with jest
Cool, so we're now code complete for
testing,
you can grab the testing
branch folder out of
the complete intro to react
V7 project directory.
Here testing that's one we just did.
I got one more thing to
show you on testing and
then I'll take all
the questions you wanna ask.
If you're on VS Code,
make sure you Install the jest extension.
I already have it, this is put out by
Orta, Orta was my former co-worker at
Microsoft, Orta is very smart,
and also knows VS code very well.
So his jest extension is very cool.
There we go.
So you can see here now I had this
little testing lab beaker thing here,
this allows you to do a bunch of
really cool things directly from VS
code directly in your code.
So when I can just look at
my tests in general and
I can see all of my tests
that are passing here.
For some reason, if I need to run I click
play, it requires a bit of ceremony to
set up with VS code so you can actually
run it directly in the debugger mode.
So you can actually step by
step directly from VS code.
I can see all the tests here,
I can run them,
if I go into my tests
here source tests and
I look at like pet.js you can see
here it gives you a check mark,
this one's currently passing,
this one's currently passing.
You can click on it'll
take you over there,
you can click up here to
run everything again.
Again some of this you do have to kind of
set it up again which I'm not gonna do at
the moment, you can see the testing
output, let's just we'd love the windows
see what happens So you can see
everything, yeah, this one is cool,
it'll take you directly to the snapshots,
you can see like view snapshot.
It'll open up here in
like a little window, so
you can see them side by side but
it's getting out of it.
Just a lot of really nice helpers for
running your tests and,
So if you're gonna be
using jest in particular,
I would highly suggest using
that VS code extension.
Definitely one of my favorite ones.
Yeah about coverage,
so for just one second,
you do need to add to your get ignore
here make sure you add coverage.
I already had it in there for you but
you do not check in the coverage report.
And then, I guess, let's just
make sure with these tests here,
let's just make one fail for some reason
So now it read this out here, right?
I get a nice read here,
if I go look in here,
it'll tell me exactly what's failing.
So it'll tell me exactly which
part of the test is failing.
Or like what's even more compelling
is I have these tests and
now let's say I'm working on pet.js.
And this is now one dot jpg,
I'll save it and then we'll say,
hey, that last say that you just did,
you get the instant feedback of that,
you cause the test to fail.
That's incredibly compelling, right?
The faster you can give feedback to
a developer that something is failing,
they still have context in their
brain of what they were just doing so
they'll have to regain context.
So there you go.
Yeah, if we took some time, you could set
it up so you can do all the debugging,
that's really nice thing to do as well.
And then I haven't right now set
up to run my tests on every save.
Obviously, if you have a big test suite or
heavy test suite that can be
a little burdensome, but I mean,
on my M1 Mac it works really well.
So yeah, highly suggest it.
So any questions about testing at all?
We have concluded the testing section.
So I showed you unit
testing in particular and
I did not get into integration testing.
And the reason for
that is it deserves its own course, right?
It's a large subject matter, and one that,
I used to do selenium and WebDriver and
stuff like that and I got trauma from that
so I'm not eager to go back there [LAUGH].
So suffice to say if you're interested in
going further than that into integration
testing, there's other great
front of masters courses on it.
Watch Steve's course on Cypress,
that's my plea to you.
I think I'll say that if I was
gonna write only a few tests
I would write a few just damn
good integration tests and
then do nothing else and
I think will be the best for you, right?
A couple things like, can the user
log in?, can the user checkout?,
can the user cancel their account?
Those kind of critical flows in all of
your application, and then call that good.
If you're doing that,
your users can at least commit
essential actions on your application.
And make sure you only have
a few integration tests.
Because if you test everything,
it becomes unruly to maintain.
The integration tests are just hard to
maintain cuz there's so much going on,
there's so much latency and
tools moving around.
So it's important to have a few really
good ones that you keep super up to date
rather than having 50 of them
that you kind of half ass, so.